Parents always want their children to grow
up, but the children don't know how to manage
their time. They don't like
socializing, they hide away in their
smartphones. They like to
show off and sometimes become stubborn. They
don't respect their
friends, they live without dreams, and they face
many other problems.
Why is this situation so bad? Is it because
parents have
too little time for their children due to busy work lives, or because
today's youth are too spoiled and cannot
escape their parents' overprotection?
What should parents do? What should the children do?
Let's join Ms.
Pham Thi Yen and the students of the
second 2018 summer retreat at
Ba Vang Pagoda on the topic of "Why do parents not
understand their children?" Please follow the
program.
1 2
[music]
3 3 4 5 6
7 Excuse me, there was a slight technical issue just now,
so I would like to reintroduce myself.
Hoang Huy would like to send greetings to
all the students of the second summer retreat.  In
2018, at Ba Vang Pagoda
this evening, we will be
joining a program of interaction with
Ms. Pham Thi Yen Anh. Let me briefly introduce
Ms. Pham Thi Yen, whose Dharma name is Tam Chieu Hoan Quan. She
is the head of the Golden Chrysanthemum Club,
practicing the Six Harmonies, and leading the Compassionate Dharma Center.
Currently practicing at Ba Vang Pagoda,
Ms. Yen is a devout Buddhist
at the pagoda. Under the guidance
of her teacher and the Sangha, and through diligent
practice and adherence to the Buddha's teachings, she has
achieved some accomplishments in her practice. She also
regularly shares Dharma
teachings and encourages members of the
Golden Chrysanthemum Club as well as lay Buddhists
studying at the pagoda. She also
answers questions about life,
difficult problems faced by Buddhists, and
questions sent via Facebook.
Furthermore, she also holds interactive sessions
and shares with young people.
And now, you will have the opportunity to meet
and interact with Ms. Pham Thi Yen. We
welcome her to interact with the
students. Please
stand up and give her a welcome!  A
long round of applause to welcome her!
[Applause]
[Music]
Please be seated, Ms. Pham Thi Yen.
Dear all, in
family life, surely all of us have at some point
disagreed with our
parents when they didn't truly understand
our feelings, leading to a suffocating family atmosphere
that makes us no longer
want to be near them.
In this case, who is right and who is wrong? Is
it because the parents don't understand the psychology of
our age group, or because we have a
flawed way of thinking?
Is there a way for us to transform
this situation to become better,
making the family happier and warmer?
Please join us for a discussion
with Ms. Pham Thi Yen on the topic of "Why do
parents not understand their children?" to hear her discuss
the issues we are facing
and the
most reasonable and empathetic solutions. While she answers and
shares, please send any questions
to the editorial team or raise your
hand to ask directly. We respectfully ask Ms. Pham Thi
Yen.
Thank you, Mr. Hoang Huy. Have you all
heard his name introduced?
It's Mr. Hoang Huy. He graduated from
university and is now working. Today there's a meditation retreat,
so he's here to help you all.
Now, let's all
chant together. Please put your hands
up and chant with me:
Namo Buddha Shakyamuni, Namo Buddha Shakyamuni, Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni. Then,
put your hands down.
Before we talk, you all just
watched some musical performances,
right?
We're here for a week at the temple, where we
get to showcase our talents,
integrate, and listen to the teachings of our
masters and senior monks, as well as the
sharing of famous people. And today, I'm here to
share with you, as a Buddhist. Please be happy!
Before we get to the topic that Mr.
Hoang Huy just introduced, I'd like to
continue from the sharing session we had
last time.
Many of you here know about past and future lives,
right?
The teacher will share with you: "
Past lives are before we were born. Before we were born, we were
our parents.
We also existed in previous lives.
The next life is after we leave
this human body. We continue to have
new lives. Before coming to this life,
we didn't know our parents; we
don't remember where we met them. Do
you see? So, in our
previous lives, we
had families, parents, our
own lives, our own work, our own
thoughts, joys, sorrows, likes, and
desires. And now,
in this life, we are our parents, and
we still have those feelings of joy, sorrow, love, and desire. Do
you see? And what about elderly people? Have you ever
met
elderly people? Their hearts still have
desires and likes. They remain the same. They leave
this body and follow those desires and likes, being
reborn in another life,
still having those desires and likes. This cycle
continues from one life
to the next." In Buddhism, there are
six realms...  After we die, we
can be reborn into one of two places: firstly, after death,
we are reborn as
humans, meaning we are reborn into the womb of another
father and mother; secondly, we are
reborn as animals, such as
pigs, chickens, ducks, geese, dogs, shrimp, prawns, snails, worms, ants, etc.
That's where we go. Secondly, the
third place we go to is the realm of
spirits, which you saw the other day.
We will become
spirits, which in Buddhism are called hungry ghosts.
Fourthly, we go to hell.
Hell is a place where beings
cannot control their own actions.
For example, a dog still has its own actions, and
hungry ghosts also have their own actions.
We also have our own,
but hungry ghosts in hell cannot. Hell is a
place where we must endure
suffering similar to that in prison, where we
must endure the consequences of the
crimes we committed. For example,
[music]
in our courtroom, there are
people who are imprisoned.  The death penalty is imposed on some,
while others receive life imprisonment, 20,
30, or 40 years. The punishment follows
the rules of the crime committed, and
those who commit
crimes without virtue—
unfilial, unjust, inhumane, lacking compassion, and without a good heart—are reborn in hell. That is, they
lack a good heart,
rarely use a good heart, or don't
use a good heart at all, only using an evil heart.
When we are human, we always
have two minds running parallel. Before
a situation arises, one source of good heart
appears, and one source of evil heart appears. If we
choose to act with a good heart,
we die and are reborn as
humans. But if our mind is
evil, and we follow
that evil heart, depending on the circumstances,
we will be reborn into the animal realm, hell, or the realm of the
hungry ghosts. There is one
realm we go to, and that is heaven.
Heaven is for those who live
morally, who live for others, who are not
greedy, do not steal, and are
not guilty.  This doesn't mean killing,
lying, adultery, drunkenness, or addiction. It means
living with an open heart towards others,
not killing, telling others not to kill,
stealing, and advising
others not to steal, lying, and telling
others not to lie, and adultery.
That means not infringing on the happiness of
others, like having an affair. You know,
I don't do that, and I
tell others not to do that, and
I'm not drunk or addicted. Anything
is an addiction.
Alcohol addiction, drug addiction, drug addiction, etc. That means
anything that's addictive,
and that addiction brings suffering
to people. This addiction is different
from passion that benefits others. Passion that
benefits
others is different. For example, a scientist is
passionate, but that passion brings
benefit to people. So,
when someone isn't addicted and tells
others not to be addicted, they are
reborn in heaven. Therefore, there are
many
heavenly beings living there. There's
another realm called the Arahant realm, and the Arahant realm is where
people live.  There is also a very beautiful
heavenly realm, inhabited by beautiful people. In the
heavenly realm, both male and female deities
are beautiful, and they possess abundant wealth and blessings
because they are virtuous and have good karma,
which is why they are reborn there. As for the Asura realm, it
is inhabited by people who also have good karma,
but their hearts are often filled with anger. For example, they
don't kill, but when they see
someone kill, they get angry. They
say they don't kill, but in their
anger, they curse and scold. They don't steal,
but when they see someone steal, they
curse and swear. That means their hearts are not
peaceful, so even though they have good karma, they are
reborn as Asuras. So,
you are introduced to our past and future lives.
Before this life, we were
either in one of these six realms and were
reborn there. For example, in our previous life, we were in the
heavenly realm, and when our karma ran out, we were reborn
in the lower or hell realms. We paid off our
sins and were reborn as humans or animals.
We paid off our karma and were reborn as
humans or ghosts. And we are
reborn as
humans according to our good and evil hearts.
How we behave towards those
around us—towards our parents,
ancestors, friends, and all living beings—will shape our
hearts, shaping our
good and evil. This shaping of our hearts will lead us to
re-enter the six realms after we leave this body.
Do you understand? It's easy to understand. Therefore, if
you embrace Buddhism, you will
learn more and avoid the situation where
some university students
recently followed the doctrine of
God, meaning they believed in God, who
gave them something and then led them to
do many unethical and immoral things.
You must understand that
you must live a moral life to be
reborn in heaven. It's not about being
immoral and then having someone save you to go to heaven. If you
understand this clearly, you
will live a virtuous life. If you
don't understand this, you will be
deluded and easily deceived by others, leading you
to do bad things. Therefore, you will only
encounter evil and bad things when your heart is filled with evil
thoughts.  Evil is the only evil. If
our hearts know how to eliminate evil and do
good deeds, then in the next life we
will receive blessings and good fortune. Do you understand? If so,
give a round of
applause! This is to give you
knowledge about past, present, and
future lives.
Today, continuing from the
topic of past, present, and future lives, I
will move on to the topic that Mr. Hoang Huy Anh
just talked about: "Why does
n't Mom understand me?" I will talk about
morality, about how we live with filial piety and obedience. If we are filial and obedient,
then in
this life we ​​will be reborn as
humans or ascend to heaven,
beautiful and happy, without worries about wealth,
money, or food. Those who are blessed with
morality, especially filial piety and obedience,
will do
many good deeds. But
those who are not filial and obedient will find it very difficult
to do good deeds. Therefore, it is difficult to
prepare for happiness
in this life and in the
next. Do
you find it difficult? Do you find
it difficult to talk to your parents?  It's not difficult to understand the
situation. When I was
little, I also had difficulty talking to my
parents, but that was because they worked all
day. There were five of us sisters in the family, and our parents worked
from 4:00 AM to 10:00 PM. Everything
at home was left to the children; they
rarely disciplined us. But we
became very well-behaved.
This is a secret to
understanding our parents. Today, I
will show you how to
understand your parents, how your parents understand
you, how to confide in them about everything,
and how your parents can
teach you. So, why
don't you want to talk to your parents? Is it
because they don't understand you? They
don't understand you at all. So
today, I will
refer to what psychologists and
teachers have asked you about your
situation. I've gathered this information and will
read it out here. Let's see
if you agree. If you agree, please
say so.  What are the common
preferences of middle school students? They
like dressing up,
beautifying themselves, buying clothes, and
buying makeup. Does that
prove the
experts right? Do they
like socializing, making many new friends?
Do they like going out to eat and drink with friends?
Do they
like spending time hanging out and
talking with friends? Yes,
yes. I'm also sending a message to
all parents to understand what their
children like. Do they like
comparing themselves to friends, thinking, "
I'm as good as this person, I'm not as good as this person,
I like being better than this person, I feel inferior to
this person"? Do they like comparing themselves to others? Do they
like using social media like Facebook
a lot, posting many pictures of themselves
with flirty statuses? Do they like
music? Yes, yes. Yes, yes. This means that the
majority of
children like using phones and computers,
even while eating, studying, and before going to bed. Do they
like
taking pictures of friends holding
hands or kissing and posting them
on their personal Facebook pages? Yes.  It's
neither yes nor no, yes or no. It's both yes and no. They
like to show off by
exaggerating their abilities,
seeing themselves as the center of the universe, the
center of everyone's attention,
meaning they always think
everyone will pay attention to them. Yes or no, yes or
no. They like to chase new trends. New trends, all the new MT, new phrases, that is, whatever new trends, they like to follow them. Yes or no? Back in
the time
when the word "eat" came out,
they stopped
using "eat" and started using it. When they entered high school, the time when
society entered a period of drug addiction, they started using words like "suck, ...
Suddenly, I do
n't know where it's used, I haven't looked it up.
It means liking to use new languages ​​and
trends. The
other day, I was on Facebook and I
saw
something about society, which I'm also using to teach
you guys. There was a word there
called "troll,"
something like "troll," and I
didn't understand what "control" meant.
In the end, it turned out to be the word for "control." That means
controlling oneself, right? That's
right. So now, using new words
means the older generation won't understand, and the
younger generation won't understand either. Only
we, the users, understand. That's
following new trends. Another thing is
liking to pay attention to and flirt with others, liking to be
noticed and flirted with, liking to
be loved.
There are so many of these.
Now, let's move on to the things I
dislike, before the things I
like. Now, let's talk about dislikes. I
hope parents will take a look so they
know what their children like and dislike.
I don't like confiding in my parents. Yes,
most don't like talking to their parents.
Sometimes I dislike having to sit with my
parents for too
long. I
like it when they mention my schoolwork,
mostly. I
don't like it when they talk too
much about my friends. I
don't like it when they put too much pressure on me
regarding my studies. I
don't like it when they compare me to my peers.
That's a mix of likes and dislikes. It's pretty
much true.
This is our issue,
and it has nothing to do with likes
and dislikes. If we don't like
talking to our parents, we have our
own way of handling it. If we like certain things,
we also have our own ways of handling those situations.
When situations arise, I'll
move on to the
next part: how
most of you handle situations. I'm saying "most,"
not "all." You
overestimate yourself compared to
reality. Because of this situation, you might think your
parents or those who advise you
don't know or understand you, that they are immature and
outdated. Yes, some ...
If parents don't allow it, then find a place to hide
their money
to have it. It's a mix of "yes" and "no,"
answer truthfully, okay? Is
there someone who notices me, someone who
loves me, or someone who loves someone else but doesn't tell their
parents because they're afraid their parents will
forbid it? Yes, right? Is there someone who loves me but doesn't
dare tell their parents because they're afraid their
parents will forbid it and they won't be able to love
anymore? Are you curious about your own physiological changes and
don't consult your parents, but instead
solve it through social media like watching
adult films? Yes, it's a mix of "yes" and "
no," and there's another part to this question.
This question is probably answered "no"
more often, but if you do, don't.
If you do, stay silent, don't
answer "no." I'm asking this question,
if you do, stay silent. Okay?
Or
if you answer "no," say that you're too
ashamed to tell the truth to avoid the
guilt of having sex too early. If you break up, you might cut your
wrists with a knife. I really
hope this doesn't happen.
But that situation is very common.
Because I've also dealt with similar
situations.  That's in your rice field, and the
age of high school, the age of college students,
that's fake straw,
another story. It's about
us again.
There are early love feelings,
unrequited love, secret longing, not telling anyone.
When that person falls in love with someone else, they
become sad, depressed, and neglect their studies, that's for
sure. So, is that a psychology expert
right? Yes, it is. So
now I will talk to you
about parents, about why we do
n't confide in our parents.
Many of the things we like, dislike,
or how we handle situations are
mostly things you don't have
contact with your parents or you don't recognize them yourself.
I will guide you in two
ways: the first is to contact your parents to
find out, the second is to recognize it yourself.
Listen carefully, because it's
your own business, and you have to know how to
handle it.
There are two types of
people, and
you can develop the
first type: those who
listen and think, then they think, "
This is what should be done, this is what
shouldn't be done." This type of
person usually has...  The tendency is to observe
what happens around them,
think for themselves, learn from
experience, and choose the
best option. That's
one type of person. The second type does
n't think, doesn't
observe, doesn't perceive, but simply follows whatever comes
their way. They learn from their mistakes, turning them
into experience, and then getting back
up. Which method do you prefer, the
first or the
second? Raise your hand if you want the first, and the
rest choose the
second. I'll thank you.
Lower your hands. For the
first method, I'll tell you a story
from my own experience when I was a
student. I chose the first method, and it's
very
good. Even now, talking
to you, I realize that I chose the
first method. Actually, back then, I
just did what I
thought. I have two older sisters. Luckily, I had two sisters.
One sister was three years older than me, meaning she was
three grades ahead, and the other was
two grades ahead of her. So when I
started middle school...  That  When I was in fifth grade,
I had an older sister in eighth grade and another
in
tenth grade. Because our parents had to work, we
played together, but we
didn't confide everything to
each other. I was always eavesdropping on
other people's conversations.
When my sister was in eighth grade, I
noticed she often looked in the
mirror,
practicing singing and dancing alone. If she had
a nice dress, she'd dance in front of the
mirror. She did this a lot. When I was in
fifth grade, I started to have
feelings for boys, but
those feelings were admiration because
they were
good students and excellent role models.
Because when there are
excellent role models, the teachers praise them,
so I liked them and developed feelings
for the boys. I had
feelings for boys because I admired their
intelligence, their character, their
morals,
and their behavior. That's how I was at that age.  Her poems
also have feelings, they're not devoid of
emotion. If we live
without feelings, then we're not truly
human. Being human means
knowing what we like, and mainly focusing on
what we like. So she really
likes her friends, Lam, who are smart,
intelligent, and good at handling situations. She
likes them, but it's just liking, mind you.
Then, once, she saw
her older sister being so stylish.
She also played with them in the neighborhood, and because they
were younger, the older boys didn't
hold back when talking. They did
n't hold back at all; they
talked and commented on each other freely. When
her sister's friends came to visit, they talked freely.
She just sat there and listened.
She also played with the
older boys in the neighborhood, but because they were
younger, the boys didn't pay attention to them; they
treated them like little kids, running
around without a problem. Then, one
time, she overheard a boy in the neighborhood
commenting on them. They were sitting and playing
together, and the boys were making comments...  But
the comments were so real, she really heard
them, they were deeply ingrained in
her mind. She remembered every
face of those guys, every
gesture they made when they commented on
her older sister's friends in 7th and 8th grade. One of them said, "That girl is
so pretentious, awful, looks terrible, and is so
brainless. The other day I saw her
swerving in front of me!"
Then he got angry and said, "Look at her!
She looks like a potato, but she thinks she's
so important."
That's what she remembered, it was deeply ingrained
in her mind. There were four of
them, four of them sitting there, commenting on each
girl one by one in
the group. Because in her neighborhood, back
then, unlike now, girls played
together from a young age, and as they grew up and reached
puberty, girls started to be pretentious. That's
why those guys made
those comments. She said she wouldn't be pretentious like
that, she would never let herself be judged
like
that, and she
decided to live true to her heart,
without
embellishment or pretense.  She focused on how to live
her life in a way that
no one could criticize. That's the path she chose.
She didn't choose beauty, nor did she
choose to be flamboyant, not at
all.
But because she wasn't flamboyant,
many people appreciated her. That's what
she gained, and people didn't
look down on her. That's what she
gained. Then she had an older sister in high school, and
they often talked about dating. She'll
reveal a story they told
you.
They talked about a
friend of hers who had
very beautiful eyes and attracted a lot of
attention from boys.
They said to each other, "This girl has
beautiful eyes, famous for her
eyes." And the stories continued. In the
following conversations, one of the girls looked at
another and liked him. Then the next day, she
looked at the same person again, and the two girls fought.
Then she liked someone,
but later he didn't like her back,
so she was
sad. She felt that because her eyes were
beautiful, people of lower social standing...  She did
n't like it, she reached a higher level,
meaning she liked rich kids. Back then,
rich kids were very important.
But the rich kid did
n't like her. Then, she
heard many stories, stories of
friends breaking up,
and she concluded with a
saying (I'll say it verbatim, it's
a bit vulgar): "Young people in
school, you can't get married if you're in love."
[Applause]
And that's when she
heard all the
stories of her friends breaking up, the suffering, the
troubles,
the fights between boys and girls in the
upper grades of high school.
So she learned from experience that
love doesn't lead to marriage, it only leads to fighting,
sadness, and disunity.
So she established her own ideology
in her head: don't fall in love while you're a
student. Those two ideologies were
established in her, so she entered
high school from middle school without being pretentious, and she
never
put her heart into it.  I don't focus on others paying
attention to me, but I don't pay
attention to others. So, everything that
happens to me is due to the mindset I've
established
beforehand. I gradually build this mindset,
and it becomes a habit. Do you see how
that works?
I establish my own mindset.
I observe my surroundings, listen to
everything, think about everything I
hear, and they are the ones who experience failure, but I
am the one who learns from it. It's not
that I'm the one who fails, but I learn
from
their failures. That's how it goes.
My mindset will rise very high, and I
can live comfortably without being dependent. Whether
people criticize me for being ugly or
beautiful, I'm not dependent. Isn't that better than being praised for being
beautiful and then criticized for being
ugly, which is
more relaxing and enjoyable?
That's the first mindset. And for the
second mindset, I'll go back to my
sister's story
after the guys...  These guys were
talking to each other, going back and forth, and
eventually the girls, the older sisters
of the teacher, heard it. At first, they were flirting with
each other, but after hearing the
comments, they started cursing at
each other. "Do you
think I like you when I flirt with someone? But I
didn't expect them to criticize me, so I cursed them out. 'You
think I like you?'
But even if I did like them, I'd
hide it and curse a little to show off, right?" That
's what led to all
these girls flirting
with the guys they were
flirting with in front of Anh. They wouldn't hang out
with them anymore. But it's starting to rain. Okay,
let's go to the main hall. Okay? We
have to go to the main hall,
or wait 5 more minutes. Wait 5 more minutes.
If it rains,
we'll go to the main hall. If it doesn't rain,
we'll sit here
[music].
When it rains, the
volunteers will tell me to go up, okay? Tell me to sit
inside so I don't get wet, while you girls sit there
getting wet. That's so unfair, right?
Okay, let's go up to the main hall for
safety.  Come on up, kids, and then I'll continue
talking to you.